README.md, before:

# HPC Median Filter Assignment
### Michael Scott, Bradley Culligan, Jared May

This is a series of programs setup to run a median filter of user-defined size on a directory of images. 
The intention is to measure speedup with regards to a serial, OpenMP, MPI, and hybrid OpenMP and MPI solution 
for running the filter of a directory of images. Further details of the solutions involved and the analysis of 
the results achieved can be found in the report. Below is a brief introduction to running the program.

## Launching the Programs

A Makefile is supplied for convenience of compiling the programs. Running `make` from the root directory will 
generate all executables. Alternatively, each executable can be specified to be compiled by running `make bin/{exe}` 
where {exe} can be one of the following:
* serialFilter
* ompFilter
* mpiFilter
* hybridFilter

It is recommened to simply run `make`. Each file can then be run individually by launching the program with `./bin/{exe}`, 
where {exe} is one of the stipulated from above, followed by three arguments (in order):

{inputFolderName} {outputFolderName} {filterWidth}

where 

{inputFolderName} is the name of the directory containing the input images (only) in .png and/or .jpeg format;

{outputFolderName} is the name of the directory where the smoothed images should be placed;

{filterWidth} is the width of the square filter window - this must be an odd, positive integer >= 3.

Note that recommened directories have been supplied - `data` for input images and `out` for output images so it is recommended 
to put the images you would like filtered into the `data` directory and then supply the `data` and `out` arguments to the program. 
An example execution might look like:  
`./bin/serialFilter data out 5` 

Further, a bash script is supplied for automated running of each program in order to provide the necessary statistical confidence 
in a varied set of parameter results such that speedup graphs over the changed parameters could be plotted and analysed.

Commit message:

Included bash and test.py explaination

README.md, after:

# HPC Median Filter Assignment
### Michael Scott, Bradley Culligan, Jared May

This is a series of programs setup to run a median filter of user-defined size on a directory of images. 
The intention is to measure speedup with regards to a serial, OpenMP, MPI, and hybrid OpenMP and MPI solution 
for running the filter of a directory of images. Further details of the solutions involved and the analysis of 
the results achieved can be found in the report. Below is a brief introduction to running the program.

## Launching the Programs

A Makefile is supplied for convenience of compiling the programs. Running `make` from the root directory will 
generate all executables. Alternatively, each executable can be specified to be compiled by running `make bin/{exe}` 
where {exe} can be one of the following:
* serialFilter
* ompFilter
* mpiFilter
* hybridFilter

It is recommened to simply run `make`. Each file can then be run individually by launching the program with `./bin/{exe}`, 
where {exe} is one of the stipulated from above, followed by three arguments (in order):

{inputFolderName} {outputFolderName} {filterWidth}

where 

{inputFolderName} is the name of the directory containing the input images (only) in .png and/or .jpeg format;

{outputFolderName} is the name of the directory where the smoothed images should be placed;

{filterWidth} is the width of the square filter window - this must be an odd, positive integer >= 3.

Note that recommened directories have been supplied - `data` for input images and `out` for output images so it is recommended 
to put the images you would like filtered into the `data` directory and then supply the `data` and `out` arguments to the program. 
An example execution might look like:  
`./bin/serialFilter data out 5` 

Further, a bash script is supplied for automated running of each program in order to provide the necessary statistical confidence 
in a varied set of parameter results such that speedup graphs over the changed parameters could be plotted and analysed. 
Note that most of this is commented out as the flags were altered interactively as we ran the programs for benchmark analysis so 
it won't run perfectly in its current form. For testing parallel versions of the code against the serial version, imageTest.py inside 
of the 'test' directory contains the code necessary to compare a test suite of output images. These are taken from the data 
sub-directory of test and are outputted to their program form sub-directories which have been left in-place for ease of local verification.
